# What's This Thing For?

Are you a Destiny gear hoarder? Me too!!! Tools like [Destiny Item Manager](https://destinyitemmanager.com/), [Ishtar Commander](https://twitter.com/IshtarCommander) and [Tower Ghost for Destiny](http://towerghostfordestiny.com) are handy for evaluating armor quality, but what about weapons? Weapon value has a bit more to do with the weapon type, your play style, and the perks.

And there are so many perks.

Some perks are good for PVP, some for PVE, and some are just taking up space; what's a Guardian to do?

One day this summer when I was poring over one of [Mercules's](https://www.reddit.com/user/Mercules904) spreadsheets and cross-referencing notes about perk priorities taken from [Planet Destiny's state of the weapon series](http://planetdestiny.com/state-of-the-weapon-review/), I realized that I really wanted to be able to _numerically score weapons based on their perks_.  

That wish was the genesis of this project.

# How Does This Thing Work?

## Good Stuff In, Good Stuff Out

### The First Run

1. Destiny Perk Score (DPS) needs information about your weapon inventory. It was designed to get that information from a `destinyWeapons.csv` generated by Destiny Item Manager (DIM). You can generate one of these `.csv` files by going into DIM's Settings and using the "Weapons" button under "Download Spreadsheets". Once you've downloaded that `.csv` file, put it in the same directory as the `perk_score.py` file.

2. The first time you run `perks_score.py`, DPS will read in the contents of the DIM `.csv` file and create a Default perk score configuration file. Perks will be collected from your weapon inventory, grouped by weapon type (Hand Cannon, Pulse Rifle, etc.) and assigned a default score of `0`.

3. Once you have this Default configuration file, you can start scoring the perks.

### Support for Multiple Configurations
"Default" is a great place to start but, if you really want to live life to it's fullest, DPS will support multiple configurations with different names. An obvious example would be one configuration for PVP and one for PVE. Theoretically, DPS supports an unlimited number of configurations, so if you want separate configurations for each Raid, Iron Banner, Trials, vanilla Crucible, DPS aims to please.

Regardless of what your configuration is *for*, the files name need to follow the format of `Config Name_perk_score_config.txt` otherwise DPS won't be able to find the config. For example, if you wanted configurations for PVP, PVE and Iron Banner, you could have the following files:

* `PVP_perk_score_config.txt`
* `PVE_perk_score_config.txt`
* `Iron Banner_perk_score_config.txt`

### Update the Perk Scores in Your Configurations
Edit each of your configurations and change the numeric value for any perks you want to contribute to a score. In the event that it's not self-explanatory, perks will be found in alphabetical order grouped by weapon type. Perk scores are distinct across weapon types. That is to say that giving Counterbalance on Pulse Rifles a score will have no impact on that same perk appearing on any other weapon type.

If you don't care about scoring a particular perk, just leave it there with the default `0`. If you __delete a perk__ the next time you run DPS it will simply add it back in again.

### Subsequent Runs
Now that you have one or more configuration files defined and scored, run `perk_score.py` again. It will create a scored copy of your original `.csv` file. Open up this new `.csv` file in your favorite spreadsheet application and you'll find columns added to the left of the `Nodes` column, one for each of your configurations with their respective scores in that column.

Every so often, you'll want to use a new `.csv` file after you've collected some new weapons. If that file contains perks which were not represented before, DPS will update your configuration files with those perks.

## Assumptions
* DPS is written in Python 3, so you'll need to have that installed.

### Thanks You's
* [Bungie](https://www.bungie.net):  Bungie has kept me coming back to their games since the Marathon series on the Mac.
* [Patrick Casey](https://twitter.com/holtzmann_yt):  Patrick's Destiny gear reviews 
* The Destiny Community:  I've never enjoyed PVP as much as I have with Destiny.

# About the project
* [Twitter](https://twitter.com/btgrant)
* [Destiny Tracker](http://destinytracker.com/destiny/overview/xbox/BananaFish)
